# Introduction

## Who Am I?
I'm a computer engineering student at the University of Waterloo. I have a passion for coding and I used to play a lot of big e-sports titles.

I peaked at Gold I in LOL (about 2-3 years ago) and MG2 in CSGO (last year). I also used to play a lot of TF2.

Working at IGN would be amazing because I haven't had time recently to enjoy what I like doing. I'm super busy with my studies and I didn't bring my gaming computer from my home in Toronto (there's a GTX 1060 just sitting at home collecting dust).

I'd love to use this summer to engineer software alongside some great (and I bet super chill) people at IGN and have a lot of fun with video games and developing and learning awesome things.

I'm not a super gamer that has played every single COD or GTA game and has tons of merchandise; but I do enjoy them, and I think I would love to be a part of IGN where everyone has one common interest: video games.

If you're a hiring manager/engineer and you are reading this; please do give me a chance! I promise I will try my best to succeed :)

## Repository Structure

### Backend Option
I selected the backend option. Code is available under the folder backend. Part 1 is implemented in csv_reader.py and loads the csv into the database. Part 2 is implemented in server.py. The only dependency I require is Flask for the server and mysql-connector for the MySQL database connection.

For the csv, I called the main table 'items', and stored every field except for the id, created_at, updated_at, and the last 5 fields. I removed the id, created_at, and updated_at fields as these would be auto-generated by MySQL; however we could manually override created_at and updated_at if need be. The last 5 fields: genres, created_by, published_by, franchises, and regions are placed into their own tables. To connect these 5 fields and items, a separate join table is used, (e.g. the genre_item join).

All string fields are HTML escaped for security, the review_score is stored as a decimal, and the last 5 fields have to be parsed as lists. Further in-depth explanation for the parsing is available in csv_reader.py.

For the server, the Flask webserver is used. Flask is a lightweight but powerful tool for creating servers in Python.

The following endpoints are available:

#### `GET /items`:
Gets a list of items.
Parameters (URL queries):
- type: e.g. Movie, Show, Comic
- genre: e.g. Action, Comedy, Fantasy
- publisher: e.g. Activision, HBO, Netflix
- studio: EA Canada, Nintendo, Square Enix

Example queries:
`GET /items?mediatype=Movie&reviewmin=7&reviewmax=8&sort=reviewdesc` will get movies with review scores between 7 and 8 in descending review score
`GET /items&reviewmax=5&sort=nameasc` will get all items with less than 5 review score in alphabetical order by name

#### `GET /items/:name`:
Gets a single item by name. This endpoint will get any associated genres, studios, franchises, publishers, and regions associated with the item.

Example queries:
`GET /items/Anna%20And%20The%20Apocalypse` will get all information associated with 'Anna And The Apocalypse'

#### Running the CSV Reader
- First ensure that a MySQL database called `igncodefoo` is created and ready for use.
- Run `python3 csv_reader.py` to extract the csv file.

#### Running the backend
- `env FLASK_APP=server FLASK_ENV=development flask run --port=5000` on a UNIX machine to start the server

Note that I chose Python/Flask/MySQL because I've been working in Python *a lot* the past few months. I'd actually say I'm a better engineer with Node.js/JavaScript/MongoDB since I've worked with these tools and technologies more in the past.

But I like trying new things; and Flask seems to be really awesome at being lightweight and easy to use. (Of course I'd be more than willing to pick up more things for the job :D).

### Optimize Link's Quest Rewards
Code to optimize Link's quest finding is available under the quest folder. The data for available quests is in quest.csv (I trimmed down the data you guys provided.).

To run: `python3 quest.py`

The output should be:

```
Quest Reward Optimizer: IGN Code Foo Summer 2020
Author: John Liu

The maximum amount of rupees that Link can earn in 31 days is 5970.
To achieve this, Link should do the following quests in order:
Quest                          Start   End     Reward
The Weapon Connoisseur             1     5        920
Sunken Treasure                    5     6        200
Riddles of Hyrule                  7     9       1200
Rushroom Rush!                     9    10        460
Frog Catching                     10    14        900
Medicinal Molduga                 14    18        600
A Gift for the Great Fairy        20    27       1100
A Rare Find                       28    31        590
```

The correct answer should hopefully be 5970 rupees. This was achieved using dynamic programming. Further explanation is in quest.py.

My language of choice is Python. Besides Flask, all code uses vanilla Python3. I am also proficient in JavaScript, and actively learning C++.
